you did
it you finally built or bought a brand
new gaming PC except there's one small
problem right now it's the most
expensive paper weight you own how do
you make the computer
compute well doing it right takes more
than just plugging her in and letting
her rip like ooh what's this button do
and what the heck am I looking at here
how do I get past this well for starters
you're going to have to get past today's
sponsor
thorum it's Valentine's Day do you know
where your gift is get yourself or your
loved one a unique and stunning ring
this Valentine's Day and make it extra
precious For Your Precious just go to
the link down below and use code LT to
get 20% off our goal in making this
video was to be as comprehensive as
possible so while we would recommend
watching it all the way through the
first time we've added convenient
chapter markers if you ever want to come
back for a topic specific refresher
we'll begin with the physical things
that you need to set up starting with
location
now obviously easy access to your ports
is critical so depending on your case
you might prefer it on the right or on
the left but what's less obvious is that
your PC's position can have a big impact
on future maintenance requirements the
main way that dust enters your case is
by being sucked into the front or the
bottom intake fans keeping those off the
floor means that your system will
require far less frequent cleaning this
is especially true for carpeted flooring
which not only acts as a pet hair magnet
but can also starve your power supply of
fresh air depending on its
orientation if you must have your system
on the floor though at least do yourself
a favor and put it under the edge of
your desk even with top exhaust fans a
shocking amount of dust can settle down
into your system if you have an open top
grill if your system has an antenna it
should be in line of sight with any
Bluetooth peripherals that you intend to
connect later and it should be clear of
anything that might block the signal to
your Wi-Fi access point like a dense
concrete wall or granite countertop or
even the PC's chassis itself I mean you
know what they say distance makes the RF
signal stronger now you're ready to plug
in and the first cable is going to be
power this ensures that your equipment
is grounded and protected from
electrostatic discharge as for the other
end of the cable well good PC power
supplies can handle a wide range of
power conditions before supplying
anything to the rest of your PC but
plugging into the wall or into a dumb
power strip can stress it if your wall
power is noisy or prone to voltage
sagging and brownouts this is especially
true when other high power appliances
are running like say an air conditioner
a UPS or premium search protector can
help clean that power up a bit before it
hits your PC or display but failing that
I'd recommend at least a basic surge
protector which can help protect your
computer against voltage spikes from
things like a lightning strike for
desktop peripherals I'd recommend
plugging your keyboard and your mouse
into the slowest USB ports that are
connected directly to your motherboard's
chipset they're not going to use the
extra performance of a faster Port
anyway and plugging them into secondary
controllers or into addin cards can
sometimes cause them to stay inactive
until the system is finished booting or
experience delays and hitches you can
check the block diagram for your
motherboard if you're unsure which ports
are connected to what the same is true
by the way if you're using a USB headset
or a desktop dck and amp pretty much
every time I've seen someone report
issues with these things it's because
they're connected through a hub or
something do yourself a favor connect
directly now if your audio device uses
an old school headphone jack you can
either use the front panel ones if your
case has them or you can use the ports
on the rear they'll usually be
colorcoded green and red for the
headphones and mic respectively or else
they'll have symbols next to them some
Modern motherboards will actually prompt
you for what you've plugged in and
they'll work regardless of where you
plug things in but they may not work
optimally on that subject some cases and
laptops might not have two separate
three-pole Jacks but rather have a
single four-pole Jack in that case
you're going to need to get a y cable
like this one unless your headset
includes one in the box next up is
display most gaming PCs come with a
dedicated GPU installed in a PCI Express
slot and you should always plug your
main display into that rather than the
ports on your motherboard's IO panel
those ones are routed to your onboard
Graphics instead now with the right UEFI
bios configuration we'll touch on that
in a moment your system May support
connecting extra monitors to both of
them at the same time but if you run
your game off of the wrong ports it will
have a negative impact on your gaming
experience as for which cable to use
HDMI display port or USBC that boils
down to what your monitor supports and
what your graphics card supports when in
doubt display port is usually the more
correct choice for PC thanks to its
generally higher bandwidth and broader
support for extras like variable refresh
rate gaming but you should also refer to
your GPU and display manuals to see
exactly which features are supported one
last thing if you're using a desktop
with built-in Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and
you intend to use it please make sure
you screw in your antennas unlike
laptops desktops often don't have
integrated antennas and while you might
be able to see nearby networks you will
almost C ly struggle to stay connected
to them it usually doesn't matter which
one screws into where if you've got
wired ethernet instead then you'll often
have one place to plug it in and you're
good to go but if you have to it's
probably worth checking your
motherboard's manual to find out what's
what sometimes they're the exact same
thing and completely interchangeable but
other times one will use a slower but
maybe more broadly supported controller
while the other might use a multi- gig
controller that's faster but requires
additional drivers once distributed into
Windows these multi- gig ports can be a
huge boom to creatives and to storage
enthusiasts who have network attached
storage devices or actually even Gamers
who have balling out internet plans but
if they're plugged into a typical
Network that has gigabit ports
everywhere else they're going to be
limited to gigabit speeds anyway with
everything plugged in and in place now's
a good time to tidy up your cables you
can use zip ties in a pinch but hook and
loop cable ties are a better solution
for future maintenance LTT storage
also we have something even better
coming soon sign up for an instock
notification for our cable management
arches at the link below now that that's
done it's finally time to fire it up
flick the switch around back on your
power supply give it a second and then
hit the power button if nothing happens
you can refer to our last PC guide
you'll ever need for some helpful
troubleshooting tips before you do that
though make sure your surge protector is
plugged in and turned on too it's
actually a more common mistake than you
think is it going to power on first try
oh crap oh power bar needs to be on oh
even for us now that fan spin is
achieved it's time to game right not yet
nearly every modern computer has what we
still refer to incorrectly as a bios the
more modern term is UEFI but we're old
school so bios is the screen you go to
when you power on your PC and it usually
has the logo of the manufacturer it's
not just an ad though there's a whole
menu buried in here if you press the
right key before your operating system
starts to boot up sometimes the you need
to press to access it is listed on the
screen but it'll usually be delete F2
F10 or F12 if you're unsure check your
manual feeling that just Mash all the
above that usually gets the job done the
exact layout of this setup screen will
vary a lot depending on the manufacturer
and model year of your system there are
DIY motherboards from a decade ago with
full graphical interfaces while some
Modern machines have almost retro
looking interfaces with no mouse support
whatever the layout the first screen
usually has information about the
hardware installed the date and time and
sometimes the order of the storage
devices the PC will check for an
operating system to boot before
continuing make sure that everything is
showing up as expected missing RAM for
example could mean you need to receip
the module or the CPU itself even if
you've been around the block a few times
you should check the manual to
familiarize yourself with the layout
before changing anything after all new
platforms bring new features and new
features bring new headaches it's at
this point that you might want or
sometimes need to upgrade your bios to
the latest version on your motherboard
or PC manufacturer's website the exact
steps for this vary greatly by
manufacturer and by Era but the gist is
this turn off the PC download the BIOS
from the manufacturer and unzip it to a
flash drive which often must be
formatted fat 32 once that's done eject
it plug it into your PC
again on a motherboard chipset Port get
back into the BIOS and usually you'll
find an option in here with flash in its
name nine times out of 10 this is what
you want select the flash drive choose
the file you downloaded confirm then
kick back and hope that the power
doesn't go out your system May reboot a
couple of times during this process
which is normal but if It suffers a
power loss it's quite vulnerable it's
being bricked so if you have a battery
backup of some sort kicking around
please do use it there are sometimes
ways to recover without this backup but
the exact details VAR by vendor and you
do not want to find out that yours
doesn't have one after the fact read
your motherboard's manual to be sure
once it's done it should say the BIOS
was updated and settings were reset
allowing you to enter setup to continue
now there are a few options of
particular interest inside the BIOS
starting with XMP and Expo the memory
overclocking standards that were also
previously L known as docp on older AMD
platforms the location of this setting
does vary a little bit but many
motherboards will have it on the main
page because it is such a common thing
for enthusiasts to enable if you've got
Ram That's rated for highp speeds this
is a one touch way to hopefully reach
those speeds enabling it will correctly
set all of the relevant settings in your
Motherboard BIOS including voltages and
something called the memory ratio you
don't need to fully understand what that
means but for best performance 1: one is
ideal on Intel and on AMD you often want
to see the F clock match half of the
memory speed don't worry too much if it
doesn't line up though fast Ram is
usually better than the alternative now
this is technically overclocking though
so it's worth noting that this might not
work in every configuration if you have
very fast memory or if you have more
than two modules for example your CPU
may have trouble running at the rated
speeds if you're worried about stability
you can go ahead and leave this step
till last then when your system is fully
set up that way you could even Benchmark
the before and after if you happen to be
a turbo nerd like me if you do enable
XMP and find that your system fails to
boot or is occasionally unstable
manually dialing back the memory speed
or slightly increasing the voltage might
make the difference worst case scenario
you can disable memory overclocking
entirely and everything should work
normally if it doesn't you could be
looking at a warranty replacement next
up if you've got a beefy enough cooler
some bioses let you toggle a setting
like core enhancement or Precision boost
enhancement this can help e a little bit
more performance out at the cost of
additional heat and power draw by making
your CPU turbo more aggressively or for
longer this one is less likely to harm
stability but again if you experience
problems I'd recommend just turning it
off our next stop will be resizable bar
a feature that boosts GPU performance by
giving the system more efficient access
to its onboard memory this is usually
going to be somewhere in the advanced
section often under a heading for PCI
devices if you don't see it it's
possible your motherboard doesn't
support it but it's also possible that
you need to enable above 4G decoding in
order for it to show up unlike memory
overclocking this setting has no real
downside so you might as well enable it
it won't do anything if your GPU doesn't
support it and on some Modern gpus it is
basically essential for proper
performance to the point where the very
newest motherboards as of writing might
ship with this on by default another
option we want to make sure is enabled
is virtualization on Intel this is often
called VTX while AMD calls it svm along
with letting you run virtual machines if
you want to with very little performance
penalty virtualization technology is
used by operating systems to enhance
security by sectioning off parts of the
system which is generally considered to
be a very good idea TM this is often
buried inside inside the CPU
configuration settings section and like
resizable bar the newest motherboards
may ship with this on by default a
related setting is the trusted platform
module or TPM Windows 11 mandates it as
the second part of its
virtualization-based security feature
and for improving Windows hello
biometric login and bit Locker dis
encryption security for that reason it's
usually best to keep it enabled or
enable it if it isn't already otherwise
no windows 11 for you at least not
officially anyway you'll also officially
get no windows 11 if you don't enable
secure boot which helps guarantee that
nothing malicious slipped in between the
BIOS and loading the operating system
this could be a simple toggle or you
might need to select the option to
install the default Keys like on this
board from Asus but if that option
doesn't show up anywhere it could be
that CSM or compatibility support module
is enabled which puts the computer into
a sort of old school boot mode and
secure boot doesn't roll that way so
unless you know that you actually need
it it's usually best to disable CSM one
hot tip that might save you some
headaches later is to determine what
onboard Hardware you don't need for
example motherboards with built-in
Wireless secondary land ports or any
other extras will have them all enabled
by default and they can sometimes be
excessively chatty this often manifests
as stuttering or hitching even when the
system isn't even close to fully loaded
because the CPU has to drop whatever
it's doing to listen to your Wi-Fi cargo
blah blah blah about the signal strength
of your neighbor's Wi-Fi that you're not
even using so take a moment and disable
anything you're 100% sure you don't need
just remember you did it so you're not
tearing your hair out later trying to
figure out why your serial Port drivers
won't install there are a handful of
other features you might wish to play
around with for example you might want
to reorder your boot devices or set up
custom fan control if your board
supports it but for the most part you
should leave the rest of the stuff in
here alone especially voltages unless
you're sure you know what they do and
accept the risks for now if you built
your own PC it's time to install your
operating system or if you bought a
pre-built it's time to install your
operating system I mean I mean you don't
strictly speaking have to but since so
many machines come with bloatware
pre-installed on them it may actually
take less time to just load up a fresh
one than to sanitize what you've already
got step one then is to download your OS
we're going to use Windows 11 as our
example but most of this also applies to
Windows 10 Microsoft provides a free
tool to download an ISO that can either
be saved so you can burn it or used to
automatically build a USB installer
we're going to have that linked Down
Below download it
grab your USB flash drive and make sure
that anything you care about on it is
backed up cuz this is going to wipe it
clean go through the prompts the
recommended version is almost always
what you want and choose USB flash drive
select the drive and it's Off to the
Races while you wait for this to finish
I would strongly recommend downloading
your Hardware drivers from the
manufacturer's websites in particular
you are definitely going to want your
network driver and some systems might
also need the storage driver in order to
get Through the Windows setup process I
usually just grab it all cuz storage is
cheap and I'm not doing anything right
now anyway once the windows flash drive
is finished unzip the drivers to it I
like making a driver's folder with
individual folders for each driver to
keep them easy to find then eject it and
pop it into your new pc and restart it
it should boot right into the installer
but if it doesn't you should be able to
choose the installer from the BIOS or
through a boot menu which is usually
accessible by mashing f8 or F2 12 on the
bio screen fun fact did you know that
you can open a command prompt at any
time during Windows setup by holding
shift and pressing F10 a fun little Pro
tip is if you do this and then type dis
part right at the beginning and hit
enter Then list disk you can see all the
drives that are installed on the PC that
way if your storage device isn't showing
up it's a faster way to know and you can
quickly reboot the system and
troubleshoot it and if it is showing up
you can type select disk followed by the
number next to it it and type clean to
remove anything from that drive if you
want to be really sure and you have some
time to kill clean all will crawl the
drive and directly set every single bit
to zero which is basically a secure Ras
though that takes a while especially
with higher capacity drives once you're
done type exit twice hitting enter both
times to close the command window then
proceed through the prompts if you come
to the part where you need to select
where to install Windows and nothing is
there it's time to put that storage
driver to use click load driver then
find the folder on the flash drive that
you unzipped your storage driver to with
any luck the driver will pick up your
drive and you can proceed as normal in
some situations by the way Windows does
a thing and splits your install across
two drives most often if one of the
installed drives has an existing windows
partition on it so if you have an old
drive that you're planning to copy data
from that has an operating system I
would strongly recommend shutting down
the system and removing it until you
finished the setup process now most
people will want to select the
unallocated space for the drive you want
to install Windows on and continue but
if you only have one drive and you want
to separate windows from your documents
Games Etc so that you can wipe windows
clean without worry later then you can
create a new Partition for just that
with this button this will steal the
amount of storage capacity you choose
for it from the windows drive so you'll
have to make the call on how much to
assign to Windows and to your storage
Drive based on what you expect to need
installed on your windows drive you can
then click the remaining unallocated
space to install Windows to it it'll set
up everything on its own when you're
satisfied click next and make a sandwich
quickly though because this shouldn't
take too long on a modern PC after a
reboot or two you should see the screen
to get connected to the network and
download updates if nothing comes up
here this is where those network drivers
come in press shift and F10 again then
Dev management. MSC and hit enter find
the unknown devices called ethernet
controllers rightclick them and click
update driver again browse to where you
extracted the drivers to your USB drive
and it should pick them up unfortunately
Windows doesn't give you an easy way to
know which one is which so there might
be a bit of trial and error with
selecting the right driver for each
controller if you have more than one or
if you get bored of this monkey business
entirely you can just bring the command
prompt back up and type UB back/ bypass
nro and then you can just deal with the
network drivers once you hit the desktop
fun fact this also removes the
requirement for an online Microsoft
account if you're successful installing
network drivers however your yellow
exclamation point should disappear from
device manager allowing you to proceed
that's the end of the hard part so we're
just going to mostly skip over the rest
just noting that we would suggest
turning off most of the analytics
options and oh make sure you take a note
of that restore from backup option if
you did use a Microsoft account you're
going to learn what that's for later now
that you're on the desktop then now what
well first order of business is drivers
some systems will offer to install them
automatically using built-in software
and some of those let you thankfully
disable that feature in the Bios if you
don't like software you can't control
lurking inside your system but more
importantly it can also lead to extra
bloat being installed on your machine
for now you should install all the
drivers you downloaded previously which
might take a couple of reboots before
you get through them all but should be
fairly straightforward for most driver
packages nowadays if all you have is a
cab file and an INF file you might have
to go to the device manager and use that
update driver trick that we showed you
earlier but that shouldn't be a big deal
once everything's installed and your
yellow exclamation marks are gone go
ahead and grab Windows updates until
there aren't anymore then right click
the taskbar go to taskbar settings then
remove search cuz it's pointless and
left align the start menu because you
are a man or lady of culture now you're
ready to start getting settled in if if
you have any Bluetooth devices that you
want to connect you can do that through
the Bluetooth icon in the system tray
just click add device choose Bluetooth
and make sure that your device is in
pairing mode it should show up in a few
seconds and then all you need to do is
Select it and follow the instructions on
screen some devices will connect right
away While others may need you to press
a button or key in a code to confirm
once the device is connected it should
reconnect automatically every time it's
turned on if you later pair it with
another device though and it no longer
works with your PC just look for it in
the license list click the three dots to
forget it and go through the pairing
process again once you're satisfied
everything is connected it's time to
check your network config Windows has a
firewall built in to protect your PC
from unauthorized access from your
network but it has two modes that Define
how strict it will be the first nowadays
the default is public which treats all
incoming connections with suspicion
unless you specifically allow an app to
accept them this is great for connecting
to unsecured public Wi-Fi at your
favorite coffee shop but if you have a
home network and you'd like to share
files you'll want to change over your
connection to private which relaxes
security to allow connection from your
local network you can change this by
right clicking the network icon in the
system tray then clicking network and
internet settings click on the network
connection you want to change then
toggle either private or public as
desired the next thing you'll want to do
especially if you're sharing files on
the network is to set up your power
options in the settings app under system
then power here you can set when your PC
goes to sleep when your screens go to
sleep and how aggressively your PC
should try to optimize for performance
or power using
by default Windows will set your PC to
sleep after 10 minutes but if you're a
fan of accessing your PC remotely
through an app like team viewer parsec
or tail scale or sharing files like we
mentioned earlier it'll be inaccessible
while it's asleep without some very
specific steps in that case you might
want to set your PC to never sleep
though that does mean you'll be missing
out on those sleep power savings you can
however tune that power draw by
searching for edit power plan in the
start menu and clicking the change
Advanced power settings Link in the
vintage window that pops up there are a
bunch of settings here ranging from when
to turn off spinning hard disks and how
many power saving features are enabled
for your Wi-Fi USB and PCI Express
devices as well as the ability to set
the minimum and maximum performance of
your CPU these options can also be
useful for troubleshooting things like
periodic dropouts and disconnections for
example if your USB cable is good and
the port is good try turning off USB
selective suspend or if your Wi-Fi is
unreliable you can try setting it to
maximum performance now that your
devices and core settings are set up you
want to tweak some of the more common
user settings for example most Gamers
don't like Mouse acceleration and the
easiest way to find this is by typing
Mouse in the start menu search and then
selecting change the mouse pointer
display or speed in this window click
pointer options then uncheck enhance
pointer Precision if it's enabled you
should generally leave the cursor speed
where it is and use DPI switching that's
built into your mouse or Mouse software
for that instead you can change the
other options here to taste or lack
there of but for now just hit
okay it's a good idea at this point to
set up some File Explorer settings by
hitting these dots here and opening up
the options window here among other
things we can choose whether to see the
default home view with recent documents
or the this PC view where only drives
attached to the system are shown if
you'd like to avoid getting duped by the
way like when we had our Channel hacked
recently you should then go to view and
uncheck hide extensions for known file
types I will never understand why this
is enabled by default there are some
other options in here like showing
hidden files uh restoring previous
windows when restarting and so on and so
forth so go ahead and modify to suit
your tastes or click on restore defaults
if you can't find that one option that
you changed that you ended up not liking
one more thing you'll notice in this
window is the apply to folders button
what's that do well if you rightclick
empty space in an Explorer window you're
going to see a view option with a bunch
of different layouts here's what each of
them looks like and here's the available
columns to sort with the details view
regardless of the view you can sort or
group Group by these criteria grouping
by date by the way is a great way to
sort your downloads and your photos if
you get it set up just right and you
want to use that layout as the default
for all folders on your PC that's what
the apply to folders button does if you
want a specific folder to show large
icons or thumbnails you can set it
separately which is pretty neat right
and don't worry if you mess something up
the reset folders button is always there
to help you speaking of folders did you
know you can change the location of
these main folders here just right click
on them click properties and then look
at the location tab click move and
you'll be able to choose a new spot for
them it doesn't work very well with one
drive but if you've got a separate drive
or a partition that you'd like to use
for your files while keeping Windows
separate this is for you when you click
okay it'll even ask if it should move
any existing files over to the new
location which is super handy if you're
doing this on a system that you've
already kind of moved into of course
there's a more fundamental way to
personalize your PC if you rightclick
the desktop and click personalization
you'll find options to change the
background colors and more you can even
have a group of background pictures that
will change periodically if you use
slideshow under colors you can choose
whether you're on the light or dark side
enable or disable the mic transparency
effect on some windows and manually
select an accent color if you don't like
what Windows chose to match your
background oh and you can choose whether
it should apply to the taskbar and to
Windows too a special note here is the
contrast themes section this can be
really helpful for people with visual
impairments or just to look cool if you
dig the aesthetic because it applies
everywhere and you can edit the colors
that it selects yourself there's some
other useful stuff in the accessibility
section of the settings app too for
example you can make scroll bars always
show if you hate the autohide stick you
can turn off Windows animations for
faster navigation you can change the
size and style of your cursor and
importantly for people who don't use
them you can disable the keyboard
shortcuts for sticky keys and filter
Keys oh that toggle Keys function can be
helpful too it plays a beep whenever you
enable caps lock num lock or scroll lock
so you don't have to look down at your
keyboard to see if they're on a common
problem for monitors is that either HDR
or high refresh rate aren't set up
correctly by default even though your
display supports it you can fix that by
right clicking on the desktop and
clicking display settings HDR settings
can be found in the brightness and color
section and clicking on it gives you the
option to enable HDR as well as Auto HDR
which will cause non-hdr games to
pretend their HDR with um honestly mixed
results you can also adjust how SDR
content will appear when you're in HDR
mode using this slider which will also
affect the brightness of the desktop if
you have multiple HDR monitors congrats
you fancy pants you uh you can adjust
them independently of each other also
HDR or not if you you have multiple
monitors and they're not in the right
order and you haven't already fixed it
yourself because of how infuriating it
was you can drag them around in the
display settings window like this and
even rotate them if you like having one
in portrait or even one upside down
using the display orientation drop down
you can see which is which by using the
identify button to make this a bit
easier and you can choose which one is
your main display so the one with the
system tray using this checkbox here one
little Pro tip by the way is that if
your cursor jumps As you move between
the displays you can tweak the alignment
in this menu like so if your monitors
are different sizes and resolutions
you're not going to be able to get it
absolutely perfect but it'll at least
help smooth things a little bit for
refresh rate you're going to need to
scroll down to Advanced display from
here you can choose each of your
monitors individually up top and then
select the refresh rate down below now
Windows is usually okay about selecting
refresh rates but overclocked monitors
including monitors with overclock
functions right out of the box will
often report the non overclocked refresh
rate as the best one and that is just
factually incorrect so if you still
don't see your refresh rate you might
need to use your gpu's Configuration
utility or try a different cable another
thing Windows guesses at sometimes with
comically bad results is the size that
you might prefer for your windows and
for your text if you want things larger
or smaller just look for scale about
halfway down the display settings window
a 20 7 in 4k monitor will typically be
set to
150% which is roughly equivalent to how
big things would look if it were
1440p if you were to set that 4K display
to 200% it would look like if it was
1080p at that size just sharper and so
on and so forth if you've got multiple
monitors you can select each one
independently at the top of the window
and then choose different scales so for
example 100% for a 1080p gaming Monitor
and 200% for a secondary 4K content
consumption monitor could make things on
screen appear to be the same size
assuming that they're the same size
physically you're going to have to
experiment with it a little bit and see
what you like and it's worth noting that
you might have to log out and log back
in for it to take effect in every app
rather not enter your password again
well good news if you're using a
Microsoft account you can enable Windows
hello what's it do it enables you to use
your fingerprint a pin or your face with
a compatible camera to log in without
your password why would you do that
first forgetting your password sucks and
getting locked out of your PC sucks more
second it can actually be more secure
because typing out your password means a
key logger or a particularly nosy
housemate might be able to read your
keystrokes this way Windows hello makes
it so someone gaining access to your PC
doesn't also gain access to your
Microsoft account to secure your PC even
better than a password alone Ever Could
you can use bit Locker bit Locker
encrypts your entire drive and while by
default it will only protect against
someone cloning or removing your storage
device you can optionally lock it down
with a pin a password or USB flash drive
key that's required before your PC ever
gets to the login screen it's best to
enable bit Locker shortly after you
install Windows so the encryption
doesn't take forever but once it's
encrypted it's super fast to encrypt and
decrypt on the fly on Modern Hardware
your apps will barely even notice
speaking of apps how do you install them
well you could go every website and
download the installers individually
like some kind of cave person but you
could also use tools to make things
simpler a classic is Nite which lets you
batch download and install a wide
variety of apps in one shot it's a huge
timesaver here's some of the stuff that
we might select for ourselves for a new
install just one pro tip here please
don't install multiple anti-malware
Shields if you value your sanity or your
performance one is fine though there are
some other great options for managing
software too one of which is to use the
Microsoft store and I know I know before
you say it I know it's loaded with
crapware and requires a Microsoft
account but there are plenty of normal
apps on there including a lot of the
ones installed By Nite and as a bonus
they're updated automatically along with
all your other store apps so you don't
need to keep on top of app updates
individually here's a bunch of our
commonly installed apps that are
available on the Microsoft store another
bonus is that they're automatically
redownloaded if you have to reinstall
which is pretty sick if you have more
selective taste in software or you just
want to install everything in one place
you can make use of a little known
Windows feature called wind get we
brought this up previously along with a
thirdparty alternative chocy but with
either of them you can search for the
software you want copy the exact name
and shove that into a batch file with
commands to install or update them that
can be a little tedious to maintain but
the upside is you can keep that batch
file on a flash drive or cloud storage
so the next time you need to install
Windows you can get back up and running
extremely quickly and like with the
Microsoft store you can schedule it to
automatic check for updates for you
steam is a special boy though it's like
an app store all on its own once
installed you've got steam Library
folders that contain anything that you
download to them and if you have a
separate drive that you'd like to use
instead of your windows Drive whether
it's a partition or a physical one
you'll need to go to steam settings then
storage click the plus next to your C
drive select your other drive then click
add it's going to show up right next to
your C drive click the three dots and
select make default to make sure that
steam install software to that drive
instead of your main one by default then
you're off to the races which is great
and all I hear you say but I've got
these peripheral things and my RGB is
out of control what do I do well many
peripherals these days do come with
driver software but if you want my
humble opinion you should be asking
yourself if you really need it before
you click that download button even the
most reputable vendor software can be
very re resource intensive and if you're
not married to a single brand for all
your peripherals you could end up with
three or four different programs just to
control your
devices but okay if you've got to have
them what you can do to help with this
is to install them then disable them
from starting automatically using task
manager built-in startup item section
just fire up task manager there's a few
different ways to do this listed here
but the pro mov is of course control
shift escape and then with this method
method you can for example set up your
mouse DPI switches and all of your
lighting save it to the mouse's onboard
memory then close the software for
maximum gaming performance and only run
it when it's necessary to make your
stuff work it's actually a good idea by
the way to check this list from time to
time and disable anything that you don't
want or need the same goes for companion
software that's installed by your
Hardware drivers this stuff can add up
I'm talking sound control panels
temperature monitors I mean the list
goes on and let's be real they're
usually not very polished despite the
alleged R&D budgets of these companies
so maybe try some third party software
like the peace equalizer APO goey or
Hardware info instead which can give you
much greater granularity and aren't tied
to specific Hardware oh since we're on
the subject by the way Hardware info is
a great tool for double-checking that
all your devices are actually showing up
and for making sure that you didn't make
any mistakes while you were installing
your cooler a simple combination stress
test like cinch and furmark while
monitoring your CPU and GPU core
temperatures will quickly reveal any
critical errors in your build hopefully
before they become a long-term problem
anything under 90 here is probably fine
but we'd like to see 70 to 80 though of
course there are exceptions like some
high performance CPUs for example are
going to Target 90 to 100 or more
whether you like it or not speaking of
like it or not
RGB it's there and I think the one thing
we can all agree on love it or hate it
is that the Control software is a CPU
hog for best performance then I would
recommend leaving that RGB alone either
rainbow bar or off but if you must
adjust it there are alternatives to the
many vendor specific RGB control apps
that are out there and windows 11 even
recently got control for this albeit
with limited compatibility as of writing
but if you want to try and consolidate
your RGB into a single app just try open
RGB or signal RGB open RGB tends to be
lighter but less flashy while signal RGB
is more capable but will make your CPU
work for it like the others will like we
had to work hard for this segue to our
sponsor thorum it's Valentine's Day soon
and as an iconic artist once said don't
be mad once you see that he want it if
you liked it then you should have put a
ring on it check out their handcrafted
rings made from conventional materials
like wood from whiskey barrels and World
War II rifle stocks every ring comes
with an American Walnut wooden ring box
and a free thorum silicone activity band
so you can put a ring on it twice just
to be safe thorum even makes minimalist
watches using some of the same unique
materials like coawood from Hawaii and
gibian meteorite from space two of the
most romantic locations by the way
Matthew MCC he has of course been to
both of them best of all they ship to
most areas worldwide and all products
are covered under their lifetime
warranty so make this Valentine's Day
extra special with thorum by going to
the link down below that's thor. comom
just make sure you use code LTT so you
can get 20% off if you're watching this
and you don't have a PC yet maybe go
check out how to build a PC the last
guide you'll ever need it really is the
last guide you'll ever need so you can
build your PC and then come back and
watch this one and you're going to be
ready to go then you'll never need our
Channel again